Sustaining the environment by not eating meat is unsustainable

Veganism is not as promising as it seems. 


For a lot of Americans, they choose to go down this path because it is associated with being good for the environment. Avoiding meat or food products made from animals seems like a good way to address animal cruelty and rising global emissions because, after all, you are just not eating the factors that contribute to the problems. 


But despite the reasons behind veganism and vegetarianism, the avoidance of animals isn’t a sustainable solution, and the numbers already show it. In a 2014 study, Faunalytics found that out of the 11,000 vegans and vegetarians in their study, 84% of them reverted to eating meat pretty quickly. A third of them lasted less than three months, and more than half started to eat meat again within the first year. But what led all these people to abandon their ways? 


For one, veganism and vegetarianism aren’t sustainable because they bring people out of touch with their culture, especially those abroad from their home country. For hardworking individuals studying or working away from home, food is often the only way for them to feel back at home. 


“Vegetarianism isn’t sustainable because it brings people out of touch with their culture.”


And if they abstain from eating foods with animal products, they may sever that cultural connection. 


As a Chinese American, I can easily find the taste of home in restaurants, but foods such as noodles and dumplings cannot be authentic without including beef and pork. So if I were to stop eating these foods, I would remove an essential part of my identity. For people who have tried veganism or vegetarianism, the lack of connection with their culture often made them feel left out, forcing them to eventually switch back to an omnivore diet. 


Daniela Molina, a 28-year-old from Miami who stopped eating meat in 2012, noted how liberating and beautiful it was to be a part of her cultural practices again. She had gone to Ecuador to visit family and ate the foods of her heritage for the first time in years. 


Being vegetarian and vegan also destroys family ties. When you think about the memories with your family, oftentimes you think about quality time with your family at the dinner table with big plates of meat in the center. These plates of meat define what a family is because of the memories that are associated with eating them. So if people stop consuming the meat that brings their family together, just like with culture, people would lose a major source of connection with their family. 


Tina Liu, a 33-year-old from New York City, expresses her struggles with staying vegetarian while trying to retain memories of home. Despite deeply caring for the environment, she doesn’t want to waste the love her parents put into the cooking, which often features pork chops or chicken. These struggles make staying away from meat difficult, which is why more than half who take protein out of their diet return to eating meat. 


Lastly, the toughest challenge that makes veganism and vegetarianism unsustainable is how much stress it puts on the consumer and restaurants. That’s because vegan options just aren’t as readily available as regular meat, and often you have to find whole new recipes for your favorite dishes. Restaurants don’t always have vegan options, and it presents a big problem for hosts who are trying to prepare the best they can for guests. This causes vegans and vegetarians to stress about maintaining their diet while restaurants and hosts worry about not taking care of their guests well enough. 


Not only that, but parents of children have to cook different meals for themselves and kids who may not practice the same eating habits. “Life is made so much harder for people who give up meat,” says Alicia Kennedy, a food and drink writer living in Puerto Rico. 


With these challenges that emerge when going out and being social, vegans are more likely to give up on their herbivore practices because it just makes everyone’s lives easier. There is no need to stress on yourself and servers about finding alternative proteins, which can help you enjoy the company of others in a social environment. 
 
Some have taken to alternative ways of being vegetarian due to the unsustainable nature of committing one hundred percent. One such alternative is being a social omnivore, which is only eating meat on social occasions such as with family and friends. While this may seem like a good balance between a vegetarian life and a meat-eating life, the fact that the person is eating any meat at all shows the difficulty in sustaining a full vegetarian diet. 


With Thanksgiving just passed and more holiday feasts on the horizon, vegans and vegetarians have more obstacles in their path that will deter them from maintaining the practice of not eating meat. Cultural pressures, bond with family, and just the overall complication of going out makes vegetarians and veganism unsustainable in the long run. 


It’s time we switch our focus on the problems of animal cruelty and emissions from bluntly cutting meat out of our diets to regulating the meat production system and finding alternative protein sources that are better for the world. Because not eating meat is just not sustainable. 

